Add Network Topology plugin docs (#4981)
elastic/observability-docs: docs/en/observability/network-topology-get-started.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[network-topology-what-youll-learn]]
== What you'll learn

You'll learn how to:

. Install and configure the Network Topology plugin in self-managed {kib} 8.19.
. Configure SNMP data collection using {ls}.
. Verify data is flowing into {es}.
. Explore network topology, device health, and routing protocol state in {kib}.

[discrete]
[[network-topology-before-you-begin]]
== Before you begin

You need:

* Self-managed {kib} 8.19 and {es} 8.19. The Network Topology plugin is _not_ compatible with {ess} or {serverless-docs}[{serverless-full}].
* One or more network devices with SNMP v1, v2c, or v3 enabled.
* {ls} installed and able to reach your network devices.

TIP: If you don't have SNMP-enabled devices to point at yet, you can evaluate the plugin against simulated data using the sample data generator and Docker Compose dev environment included in the https://github.com/elastic/kibana-network-topology-plugin[Network Topology plugin repository].

[discrete]
[[network-topology-install-plugin]]
== Step 1: Install the plugin

> NOTE: The version in the plugin `.zip` must exactly match the target {kib} instance version. When you upgrade {kib}, rebuild the plugin from the matching {kib} source tree before installing it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The {kib} version in the plugin `.zip` must exactly match the target {kib} instance version. When you upgrade {kib}, rebuild the plugin from the matching {kib} source tree before installing it.
```
Assuming this is accurate I think it's more clear/explicit.

+
NOTE: Install the pipeline first because the index template references it as the default ingest pipeline.
. Repeat for the index template.

[discrete]
[[network-topology-configure-logstash]]
== Step 3: Configure SNMP data collection using {ls}

The Network Topology plugin reads from an {es} data stream that {ls} populates using the SNMP input plugin.

. Create a {ls} pipeline using the `logstash.conf` reference provided in the https://github.com/elastic/kibana-network-topology-plugin/blob/main/docs/collectors/logstash.conf[Network Topology plugin repository]. Edit the SNMP input to list your devices, credentials, and polling interval, and edit the {es} output to point at your cluster.
. Start {ls} with your pipeline configuration. If you use {logstash-ref}/logstash-centralized-pipeline-management.html[{ls} centralized pipeline management], you can push the pipeline directly from {kib} instead — no SSH access to a {ls} host required.

[discrete]
[[network-topology-logstash-troubleshooting]]
=== Troubleshooting: common SNMP input errors

> Problems with an SNMP get, walk, or table operation surface as the following error in the {ls} log:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Problems with an SNMP get, walk, or table operation cause the following error in the {ls} log:
```

[source,text]
----
error invoking 'walk' operation: error sending snmp walk request to target <ip>:<port>: Request timed out., ignoring. {host=<ip>:<port>, oids=[<oid array>]}
----

Check the following:

* *Wrong community string or v3 credentials* — verify the community string (v1/v2c) or username and password (v3) in your {ls} pipeline config are correct.
* *Incorrect target IP or port* — confirm the device IP and SNMP port are correct.
* *Device is unreachable or down* — confirm the device is up and available.

[discrete]
[[network-topology-verify-data]]
== Step 4: Verify data in {kib}

. In {kib}, navigate to *Observability* → *Network Topology*. You can also use the {kibana-ref}/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search[global search field].
. Confirm the page shows your configured sites and the network segments that have been discovered.

[discrete]
[[network-topology-explore]]
== Step 5: Explore the Network Topology plugin

> The plugin gives you the following views into your network: a site-level health summary, an interactive topology graph, a per-device detail flyout, and a searchable device inventory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin gives you the following views into your network: a site-level health summary, an interactive topology map, a per-device detail flyout, and a searchable device inventory.
```

[discrete]
[[network-topology-site-overview]]
=== Site overview

The site overview shows a grid of health cards, one per site. Each card summarizes the state of the devices in that site.

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/network-topology-site-overview.png[Network Topology site overview showing health cards for HQ-DC1, Branch-NYC, and Branch-CHI,75%]

[discrete]
[[network-topology-topology-view]]
=== Topology view

> The topology view builds an adjacency graph from the ARP, MAC forwarding table, BGP, and OSPF data the plugin has collected, and renders it as a force-directed layout. Zoom, pan, and drag nodes to lay out the view, and toggle the L2, L3, BGP, and OSPF layers to focus on a specific protocol. Link colors and styles indicate state.

Reviewer: Consider calling this "topology map"  since that's what the tab is called in the UI.

```suggestion
The topology map builds an adjacency graph from the ARP, MAC forwarding table, BGP, and OSPF data the plugin has collected, and renders it as a force-directed layout. Zoom, pan, and drag nodes to lay out the view, and toggle the L2, L3, BGP, and OSPF layers to focus on a specific protocol. Link colors and styles indicate state.
```

Reviewer: it would apply in a couple other places if you decide to go with this

[role="screenshot"]
image::images/network-topology-topology-map.png[Network Topology map view showing a force-directed graph of devices and links for the HQ-DC1 site,75%]

[discrete]
[[network-topology-device-detail]]
=== Device detail

> Click a node in the topology view to open the device flyout. The flyout shows the interface table, ARP neighbors, BGP peers, and OSPF adjacencies for the selected device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click a node on the topology map to open the device flyout. The flyout shows the interface table, ARP neighbors, BGP peers, and OSPF adjacencies for the selected device.
```
